## Introduction
Election plays a vital role in democracy. Due to the prominent role of election, it becomes crucial to select an ideal candidate. Especially, when it’s a matter of choosing a candidate for opponent party things become more important than ever. Two major political parties in the USA are ‘The Democratic’ and ‘The Republican’. In 2016, the Republicans win the race. It’s time for the democratic to prepare an ideal candidate to defeat its opponent party which is the republican. Surprisingly, more than 20 candidates have claimed themselves to be the ideal nominee for the US 2020 election from the democratic party. Among them, 10 candidates have failed to fulfill the debate criteria of the democratic party which resulted in disqualifying them. But still, there are 12 candidates in the race.
An opinion poll exists, since the early 19th century and various media have been conducting such poll to identify the best candidate among those 12 candidates. However, there is evidence from the past, which shows the failure of such an opinion poll to accurately select the outcome. Thus, the scientific community has moved towards analyzing web data such as Twitter, Facebook, YouTube to predict possible outcomes based on public opinion.
Social Media contributes to a big portion of today’s big data world. People express their opinion, ideas, criticism through social media. They share about personal life, politics, religious views and so on. Everyday millions of people’s views are posted there. Because of people’s huge interest in social media, recently it becomes obvious to analyze social media data to predict the output of people’s thoughts instead of traditional opinion poll.

## Research Question
How can we predict the most popular candidate among 6 candidates for ‘The Democratic’ nominee of US 2020 election by analyzing social media data?

- Sentiment Analysis can be found in: sentianalysis.ipynb file
